Virtual Network (VNet)
----------------------->>>

. VNet enables Azure resources to securely communicate with each other, the internet, and on-premises networks.

. VNet is virtual (like VM)


IP Address::::

. An IP address is a unique numerical identifier for a device or network that connects to the internet. 

. IP stands for "Internet Protocol", which is the set of rules that govern how data is sent over the internet or a local network.


Address space::::

. An address space is the range of IP addresses that are avilable

. Every service or resource that is connected to a VNet will get its own unique address on that VNet within the address space.
(that is how services on the same Vnet can find each other and communicate)

. you assign an address space to the Vnet and the serice or resources automatically gets an Ip address in that address space



Subnet::::

. Subnets enable you to divide VNet into one or more subnetworks and allocate a portion of the VNet address space to each subnet

. by doing thus we can have multiple networks on the same VNet

uses of subnet)))

* we can group some of resources (may be they are related to a particular project) onto same subnet to mate it easier to keep an overview

* if IP adress range is small, it is easy to allocate address to resources

* we can secure individual subnets using a network secuiry group


Subnet Regions& Subscriptions ::::

. A VNet belongs to a single region. Every resource on the Vnet must be in the same region too.

. A VNet belongs to just one subscription, but a subscription can have multiple VNets.

Advantages of VNet
::::::::::::::::::::

* Scaling:: If you want to add more address in your address space, you can do it. Vnet will support it
	    If you want to create a new VNet it is also easy.


* High availability:: by using peering Vnets, load balancer, VPN gateway we can increase the availability of resources

* Isolation ::we can isolate services and products very efficiently and simply with VNets. Using subnets and network security groups you can manage and organize your resources within a VNet


VNet peering::::

That allows you to connect two or more VNets together in the same Azure region or across different Azure regions.

. Traffic between VMs in Peering uses private microsoft network and never passes through the public internet, just like if the VMs were on the same VNet


peering benefits)))

. Low-latency, high bandwidth connection   between resources in different virtual networks.

. Resources in separate VNets can communicate

. Transfer data easily between subscriptions and deployment in separate regions